more than a thousand people have now
been killed in Israel and Gaza after A
Massive Attack by Hamas militants that
began at dawn on Saturday there are
reports this morning that Israel has
struck more than 500 Hamas Targets in
Gaza overnight where
123,000 Palestinians are displaced
President Biden has ordered extra
military assistance for the Israelis
promising them Rock Solid and unwavering
support our Middle East correspondent
yoland Nell has this report
explosions lighting up the night sky as
Israeli missile defense shot down
incoming Palestinian Rockets but not all
homes in southern Israel were hit and in
Gaza Israel has been striking
back the Israeli Prime Minister
threatening Mighty
Vengeance the scale and complexity of
Saturday's surprise attack is still
becoming
clear Hamas released this footage of its
armed men's storming the main Crossing
for people from Gaza entering Israel
Israeli Rescuers have been collecting
hundreds of bodies it is uh by far the
the uh the worst day in Israeli history
never before have so many Israelis been
killed by one single thing let alone
enemy activity on one day and if you're
Americans and want to compare this to
Something in American history then this
could be a 911 and a Pearl Harbor
wrapped into
one Hamas now says it's holding 100
Israeli hostages like this 85-year-old
grandmother yafa Adar whisked Away by
militants in a golf
cart y Asher is begging for the safe
return of his wife and two small
children after they were kidnapped by
gunman while visiting his in-laws I want
to ask of
Kamas don't hurt them
don't hurt little children don't hurt
women if you want me instead I'm willing
to come now in Gaza most areas are
without power after Israel stopped
supplying electricity there are
shortages of food and water tens of
thousands of Palestinians have fled
their homes many seeking shelter in un
schools as Israel HIDs back the
International Community has rushed to
support its right to defend itself but
there have been warnings too about a
growing humanitarian
crisis Israel keeps
saying the blockade and repeated
assaults on Gaza are to destroy
Hamas military capabilities and ensure
security
clearly and ex and
expectedly its blockade and assaults
accomplished
neither and with Palestinians killed in
clashes with Israeli soldiers in the
occupied West Bank there are new signs
of the violence spreading yoland Nell
BBC News
Jerusalem well let's get the very latest
now from our correspondent Anna Foster
who is in southern Israel for us morning
Anna just describe the situation where
you
are morning Sally well even as you're
talking to me now we're hearing very
loud
explosions still in the sky here in
ashalon in southern Israel and as you
were hearing there it has been a an
intense night we've had missile barrages
coming across here from Gaza and again
the Israeli Defense Forces have been
striking targets there this is one of
the missiles that actually hit its
Target most of them are destroyed by
Israel's Iron Dome defense system but
you can see here this is a a twostory
block of flats and a missile from Gaza
made a direct hit right into the center
of them you can see at the Children's
bike and toys on the floor I've just
been talking actually to a woman who
lives just in that flat there actually
right above and she was saying that her
and her husband when this happened they
were stuck inside the door was jammed
they were trying desperately to get out
and she said they had to be they had to
be rescued by firefighters people who
live in this area are used to missile
attacks from Gaza but really not the
size and the scale that we've seen since
Saturday morning and certainly not the
kind of infiltration with Hamas
militants coming through the fence from
Gaza as we saw paragliding into this
part of Southern Israel coming in by sea
and wreaking that the Havoc which you
have seen over the last couple of days
and people here this morning they are
out they are surveying the damage and
they're very much wondering what this
means next for them Anna thank you very
much indeed well our reporter rushi Abu
Alou is in Gaza this morning uh morning
rushi just talk us through the situation
there and what the latest information is
that you have over the last last few
hours yeah good morning just as we speak
abaj of rockets were fired from from
Gaza as mainly Hamas send message saying
that it's in response to what they call
Israeli massacres the in a statement
Hamas this morning said that Israeli
committed 11 massacres in in Gaza
killing families and kids and children
we have been getting reports since last
night about air strike in inun in
southern Gaza and in Rafa where civilian
casualties were uh discovered under the
rubble of those of those building and no
statement yes or update from the health
Ministry about the number of the people
killed overnight but medical official in
the main hospital in Gaza told the BBC
about 40 people killed overnight which
last night was the heaviest I think for
years Israel carried out more than 500
air strikes targeting many places
buildings houses uh and one of the
deadliest attack was in shat refugee
camp it's the densely populated refugee
camp within Gaza City it's called the
beach camp and they destroyed a a
two-story mosque it's a famous called
the Western white mosque is being
destroyed by five six air strikes ER
some of the buildings around the mosque
the mosque were collapsed and they are
trying to rescue people from under the
the rubel the situation is escalating in
a very dramatic way last night and and
this morning with for the first time we
are hearing some gunfire near the
Israeli border about half an hour ago we
heard
Israeli helicopter engaging in in in in
gun batt or in gun fighting near the
Gaza border which is about like 2 km or
km this way uh in the third day Gaza is
still H without electricity 80 85% of
the people H they don't have electricity
for 3 Days the most of the internet
lines are are down the crossings that
connect Gaza with the inter with the
world is is completely closed Israel
shut the main of the cross the main
Crossings and there is no uh Goods or
medicine or fuel enter Gaza no movement
for people and goods since three days
and RI we're also hearing as you
mentioned that power supplies being cut
we're hearing there are um there's a
shortage of food and water too what can
people do to find food and water when
the supply chain is currently
blocked
well there is two sources of power in
Gaza one is produced by the solo power
station in Gaza which they said they
have fuel enough uh for another 20 48
Hours the the main source of the power
is lines coming from Israel and Israel
decided the first day of this operation
to stop supplying Gaza with those with
those B so now the what what is
available is quite small amount of of
few of electricity and they are now
being given to the hospitals to run the
essential services and the water
services but for the ordinary people
they are unable to see electricity or
Internet for the last 3 days most of the
people about 85% of the people are not
having this and because of the fighting
uh just looking down is the main street
to uh that lead to the downtown the
shops are completely closed schools H uh
universities businesses are shut for the
third day and most of the gazan are
staying door last night was really heavy
fighting heavy Israeli air strike so
it's hard also for the people to uh to
sleep with the with the terrifying sound
of air strikes and also terrifying sound
of rockets being fired Hamas last night
also said that they have fired a 100
rocket towards the city of ashalon they
said it's in response to the Israeli
attacking civilian civilian houses and
they said we will continue to retaliate
for any more Israeli attacks on Gaza
rushi thank you very much indeed that's
rushi Abdu alof live for us in Gaza this
morning